TODO list for Cgoban 1.9.13

   Right now I've got way too many things to plan on when I'll be doing which
of them; my head hurts just thinking about all of them.  But I am slowly
making progress.

   Update on Feb. 27 2002: Not working on this any more. I'm now working on
cgoban 2 and KGS. If anybody wants to take this over, please let me know.

Bugs to fix:
	GMP can't play handicap games on a server.
	When continuing a game, the number of moves left in your byo-yomi
	  period is wrong at first.
	Laurent Demailly has this weird bug where it crashes during
	  gettimeofday().
	Scrolling rapidly will sometimes mess up the text windows.
	Running "cgoban -edit buggy.sgf" doesn't pop up an error dialogue.

Features to add:
	Print games you are editing.
	Make little logos for open, closed, looking.
	Make game list window keep up with moves in games your are observing
	  or playing in.
	Watch for the output of "who <game>" and update game list.
	Add sound effects.
	Score boxes should reflect final score when a server game ends.
	Make it automatically resume adjourned games in the same window
	  when they resume.
	Add windows for each conversation that you are in.
	Add a way to add/see the "FG" and "DI" SGF codes.
	Add "-view", like "-edit" but read-only.
	Allow users to sort the games list.
	Support the chatter command.
	Add the equivalent of "Notify".
	Make it not scroll the text when you're looking at something older.
	Add tabs to pretty up results output
	Grey out users so "who 5k-1d o" works well
	Beep when time running low
	Warn when your kibitzes are lost because game ended
	Let users type as you are logging in
	Let GMP use more than the first two servers
	Let player change rules of an SGF file
	Make arrow act same in edit window and edit tool window
	Add edit tool stuff for inserting nodes
	When you start a game on one server, automatically become closed to
	  games on the others.
	Allow people to save and edit "Look" files.
	Automatically reconnect when you are logged out.
	Easier saving games from server windows.

Configuration options to add:
	Better beep control.
	Number of lines to keep in the log
	Allow users to set up function keys to bind to common commands

$Source: /cvsroot/cgoban1/cgoban1/TODO,v $
$Revision: 1.5 $
$Date: 2002/06/13 17:51:02 $
